Emre-
I have designed the admin side and market side GUI pages of the application. I have also created controller classes and connected to view classes for every view class for the pages I have been in charge of. I have worked with aslı to connect all GUI pages of the application and communicated during this process to have smooth, easy User-Interface flow in all the pages in our application. After the GUI side of the program was finished, I worked with other group members  who were responsible for the coding model and data classes to connect the program with the model classes. Once the skeleton of the program was completed, I started to test the program to find possible errors and/or bugs that users can see. As a team, I have worked with all other group members in the group( for data bugs, especially for Arda; for GUI bugs, with Aslı and for Model bugs, with Selin and Parsa). Once the bugs we discovered were solved, I started to look at all of the programs to think about how to develop GUI pages. In the end, I can proudly say that I have learned a lot in this project, especially for the front-end part. I have learned a new script language, JavFX; to develop a better looking user-interface for Java desktop applications. I believe that JavaFX will help my career in the future. Moreover, I can say that I experienced how to work in a team environment, how to solve problems together with other programmers. Furthermore, I also learned how to use Github during this project. Also,Implementing an OOP program using MVC pattern was another plus for my programming career.

Selin- The workload of the project was evenly distributed at the beginning to all of our project members and I was supposed to work on the database with Parsa. However, we happened to start implementing our code a bit later than previously planned and changed our direction with how some of the code would be implemented. We decided not to use a database and I took the role of writing the model classes with Parsa. I also helped other members with implementation and debugging at the end. After the fxml and controller classes of our application were implemented, I took part in coding and connecting all the table views in the project. Followingly, I also regularly met with Aslı and Emre on Zoom to debug the application once we were done. Taking part in this project definitely was both a challenge and a thrill.  In the end, I believe that I learned both soft and hard skills such as working with a team and learning the importance of communication. There were times when I faced obstacles and bugs that I could not overcome but learning to do extensive research online and being able to ask help from my teammates were new skills that I acquired while working on this project. Moreover, I believe I improved tremendously in my debugging skills, learning to code OOP type of projects, my ability to use git and Github, learning the concept of MVC, and being able to implement different programs inside IntelliJ as I integrated the visual layout tool Scene Builder inside IntelliJ.

Aslı-  The customer-side GUI pages are designed by myself. In addition to the GUI pages (fxml implementations), I created the controller classes of each customer-side page and connected them to the view classes. I collaborated with Emre to connect all GUI pages of the application and communicated during this process to have a smooth User-Interface flow in all the pages. After completing the GUI part of the customer side, I have started to work with my other group members for the completion of the coding of the model and data classes to connect the program with the model classes. Once the whole data and model classes are done, I have started to test the program to find possible errors and bugs. For the solutions to the errors, I collaborated with my group members. After the debugging process, I checked the whole fxml page and fixed all related problems. To sum up, the things that I have learned with this project are very valuable for both my academic life and career as I had a chance to learn a new script language, JavaFX, to develop a better-looking user interface for Java desktop applications. Additionally, even, my primary responsibility was the GUI of the customer side, I fixed some problems on model and data classes, so I also had a chance to enhance my knowledge of OOP programs using MVC patterns. Lastly, working with a group is one of the main parts of the industry, so experiencing the work in a team environment was also one of the valuable things that I had the chance to experience. 


Parsa- At first Selin and I were responsible for the model classes to make a general structure of the Spoil’nt. Both of us coded the model classes and checked each other's codes to share the common parts and reuse codes. After that we started working on the database but we were not able to find a suitable, comfortable, and user friendly database to use; thus, we decided to use an inner-program database to store the data needed. Then, me, .Arda, and Selin decided to start working on the new case. After two days we were able to use the written classes. In the meanwhile, Aslı and Emre were connecting the GUIs they had written and they had some problems showing the data in a table view. Then Selin and I began searching about the problem and tried to solve it by watching YouTube videos. Then, we started working on table views and finally were able to show the datas on the tables. After connecting all the classes I gathered with  my team and we started debugging and on July 31st 2021 we were able to run the program without any obstacles. I believe I learned a lot about OOP in java. I understood the importance of MVC in GUI and the code reuse logic in general. I gained experience in fxml, JavaFX and creating new databases. Also, I learned how I need to behave while programming with a group. 


Arda-
At the beginning of the project I was responsible for the writing, testing and debugging of the model classes however after the decision to not to work with an online database Selin and Parsa wrote the model Classes and I worked on the data storage and connection with the program. I wrote the container classes and made modifications on the model classes and connected the controller classes with them. I majorly worked on the back-end part of the application and wrote the controller classes with my teammates. At first I worked with Aslı to implement model classes with the GUI part. Later as a group we worked together on debugging all the bugs and made necessary changes. It was really nice to experience all of the project processes step by step in this course.  I improved my designing, algorithmic thinking and debugging skills. I clearly experienced MVC design pattern and the importance of design. Additionally, coding as a group was a new concept for me though, it is harder than individual work at the beginning, it will be very helpful to my future career. Finally, realizing that being able to write a complete program and have an impact on other people increased my motivation. 
