Our project Spoil’nt was challenging yet a bliss to work on. Planning, deciding, and implementing the project taught us many different skills. Firstly, we learned different technologies and learned to move forward as a team. For instance, we implemented Scene Builder to create our GUI, which had to be integrated inside IntelliJ, and learned to use JavaFX code to connect our controllers with our data classes. We also used other skills such as being able to use Github and general soft skills that we need to work as a team which will be helpful to us in the future for our worklife. One downside of working on this project was the time constraint that we were on and the distance learning environment. The classes were held online and we could only meet on Zoom to discuss and implement our project. Furthermore, we coded our application in about 14 days as we didn’t have any much time. Having to finish our application in such a short amount of time was very stressful and mentally draining for us. This also caused us to take some of the other properties of our application as simply we did not have time to implement them. As a team, we believe the hardship mostly came from the fact that not all of us were available when we had a group meeting and we had to meet at night most times to prepare the reports or discuss the project. If we could start again with this project, we definitely would like to implement a database such as the one we had planned at the beginning of our project and start a bit earlier with our implementation. We started coding our application on 17th of July and finished debugging on the 30th of July. In total it took us 2 weeks to implement everything with our project. We did not code as much when we first started but we spent around 5 hours on the project every day on the week of the 26th of July until the 30th. We are very proud of what we have achieved with this project as our application is not only a functional one but also one that can make a difference in this world.
 
